# Recording-analyzer statistics verification

The recording-analyzer program uses the ffmpeg program to analyze and generate statistical information about a music file. The programs in this verification directory can analyze the same audio file with different programs such as SoX and Python.

Ideally, running a different program on the same audio file should produce the same statistical output as the recording-analyzer program. That would help the user verify that the results produced by the recording-analyzer program are accurate. Unfortunately, different programs analyze audio in different ways than ffmpeg. Results may vary. A statistical threshold is used to check if the statistical results from ffmpeg are within a tolerance of the other programs. A default threshold of 10% is defined for each statistic generated by the recording-analyzer program. Custom thresholds can be set for each statistical metric and can be edited by the user. Setting a threshold to 0% would mean that the statistic from ffmpeg must exactly match the statistic from the other program. Thresholds are set in percentages, e.g. 5%. You can set the threshold by editing the threshold.txt file in each verification directory.

Running the verification program is entirely optional and not part of the recording-analyzer.sh program. Verification is only used to compare audio file statistics from different programs.

## 📦 Installation

Download the zip file from <https://github.com/mcochris/Recording-analyzer> or

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mcochris/Recording-analyzer.git
```

## ✅ Requirements

The following programs need to be in the $PATH variable and executable from the command line:

- BASH shell
- SoX, plus the libsox-fmt-all library
- Python version 3, plus the soundfile and numpy libraries
- loudgain
- bs1770gain
- ebumeter

## ▶️ Usage

```bash
path/to/Recording-analyzer/verification/verify.sh <audio_file>
```
